+++
# Date this page was created.
date = "2018-04-25"

# Project title.
title = "African Women Power Network"

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = "A non-governmental organization providing training to women farmers and entrepreneurs in Taraba state, Nigeria."

# Optional image to display on homepage (relative to `static/img/` folder).
image_preview = "africanwomenpowernetwork.png"

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags = [""]`
tags = ["Africa", "Digital Skills", "Gender", "Agriculture"]

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = ""

# Links (optional).

url_pdf = "#"
url_video = "#"
url_poster = "#"

# Does the project detail page use math formatting?
math = false



# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "africanwomenpowernetwork.png"
caption = "Women at a training in Nigeria. Photo credit: [AWP Network](https://awpnetwork.com/)"

+++
## EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The African Women Power (AWP) Network was founded in 2012 to train,
empower, and publicize the stories of African women entrepreneurs. The
organization provides a platform for publicity and funding for women and
youth entrepreneurs in Nigeria. AWP currently runs three major training
programs that combine technology and business education. The first
program conducts webinars for African entrepreneurs featuring African
experts. The second program provides education in developing business
plans and pitch training opportunities to Nigerian students between the
ages of 12 and 16. The third program trains women farmers in northern
Nigeria, and connects them to improved agricultural methods and
materials.

## CONTEXT

Taraba is a state located in the northeastern part of Nigeria. According
to the National Bureau of Statistics of Nigeria, 64.4 percent of Taraba
State's population falls in the "very poor" and "poor" income brackets
as of 2009. Taraba has a relatively high literacy rate due to numerous
public educational institutions, with a 46.9 percent adult literacy rate
for females and a 66 percent adult literacy rate for males. In addition
to the ease of access to education centers, computer centers and cyber
cafés are prevalent throughout the state. In Taraba, there is a
disparity between urban and rural access to mobile devices, as about 90
percent of urban residents have access to a mobile phone while only 60
percent of rural residents have the same.

Taraba's residents predominantly engage in farming of crops such as
cassava, millet, rice, yams, sugarcane, and corn. Some engage in like
cattle-, goat-, and sheep-rearing, fishing, pottery, cloth weaving,
dyeing, woodcarving, embroidery, and blacksmithing. *According to the
National Bureau of Statistics*, Taraba's total employment in crop
farming as of 2006 is on the decline, with current rates at
approximately 46 percent for women and about 59 percent for men. In
recent years, there have been several initiatives to improve the
agriculture sector using information and communications technologies
(ICTs). One such example is efarmers.ng, a platform to connect local
farmers with businesses to sell crops. Additionally, in 2016, the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in Nigeria -- in
collaboration with the National Information Technology Development
Agency -- launched an e-agriculture web portal for stakeholders and
farmers to connect and exchange ideas to bolster the agriculture sector.

## PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The African Women Power Network focuses on three main initiatives. It
organizes pitch competitions for young entrepreneurs across Nigeria,
supports woman farmers through mobile-based training programs, and helps
secondary school students to develop their business plans. Among these
initiatives, AWP Network Agropreneur project is a three-day practical
agricultural training program, which targets women farmers and helps
them improve farming techniques and practices with the goal of
increasing yield and production at a reduced cost. It has two main
phases. In phase one of the project, female farmers participate in a
training program on modern agricultural practices and receive
agricultural materials (seedlings, fertilizer, etc.) at no cost. This
initial phase, co-funded by a grant from the Planet Earth Institute,
provides these farmers improved, innovative farming techniques to
increase crop yield and farm more effectively, which they practice on
AWP's demo farm and then on their own farmland. For this training
program, AWP partnered with a local entrepreneur and seasoned farmer,
who is also the CEO of Farmfields Agro-Allied Services.

In phase two, which is still in development, AWP will continue to
provide training and agricultural resources beyond the length of their
grant by collecting a percentage of revenue from each farmer's crop at
the end of each growing season. The program had a vision to incorporate
mobile technologies widely, but ran into specific challenges due to poor
infrastructure. The business model aims to create a sustainable
financial future for their entrepreneurial and technical agricultural
education in the region. AWP's emphasis on teaching modern agriculture
alongside business practices has the long-range aim of transforming
farming from a poverty-level occupation to a successful livelihood.

## PROGRESS AND RESULTS

As of 2017, AWP Network's agricultural training initiative has trained
more than 500 female farmers in northern Nigeria. The network is working
on solutions to the challenges the program's early years have uncovered
such as language-barrier issues and infrastructural irregularities to
enable the widespread use of mobile technologies for remote training and
support.

## CHALLENGES

**Lack of consistent electric power** -- The network's vision for the
program initially included the creation of a mobile application the
farmers could access for resources, to support, and supplement the
in-person training, but the power supply has proven to be erratic.
Mobile phones are widely used in Nigeria, but due to uncertain power
supply, mobile applications are seldom used.

**Language barriers** -- The program was initially conceived with an
English-speaking population in mind. The female farmers of northern
Nigeria largely speak tribal languages and require content that either
caters to local literacy or provides image-based instruction for more
universalized adaptation.


## AWP NETWORK’S SUGGESTIONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS

**Partnerships with local community organizations are essential** -- AWP
Network credits its success to the relationships it has built with local
community leaders. Where other organizations failed to implement their
projects in northern Nigeria, AWP succeeded in gaining the trust of the
women it educates. AWP collaborates with individuals respected by the
community, businesses and NGOs to better understand the needs of those
they serve, demonstrate their respect and trustworthiness, and optimize
their implementation practices.

**Needs assessment helps save time and efforts** -- The program did not
initially do a needs assessment with the target population to understand
their context and needs, but instead they developed the program with an
English-speaking population in mind. While on the field, the project
team realized that the female farmers of northern Nigeria largely speak
tribal languages and require local content or image-based instruction.
As a result, they had to revise their training module. Doing a needs
assessment helps save time and money.



## SOURCES

Olushoga, M. (2017, July 28) Personal Interview.

Project website: [https://awpnetwork.com/](https://awpnetwork.com/)






